It's important to figure out your resources before the project gets rolling. This makes it easy for everyone on your team to get their work done, and that's your job as a project manager. 

Planning your resources early is a great way to set your team up for success.


Budgets: an estimate of the amount of money a project will cost to complete

Almost all projects have budgets because they need funding for expenses, like buying the right materials or software, hiring vendors to complete jobs, or doing marketing once the project's done. During the initiation phase, you'll talk to the stakeholders and the people working on the project to figure out the tasks needed to get the project done. Here, you might ask questions to help uncover hidden costs. For example, are there any taxes on products that you need to account for? What about extra fees? All this information will help you create a budget, which you can use to source and compare proposals from vendors, figure out upcoming costs, and track all the money moving in and out of your project. You'll often include the budget and the project charter, and the stakeholders review it for approval.

Resources: team of people who help execute the tasks of a project. 
For example, you, as the project manager are a resource. So is the marketing manager who might create advertisements for this new product. Other resources can include people outside of your company who have unique skills and can do certain tasks that people in your organization can't do personally. Then, you have materials. These are items you need to help get the project done. For example, project materials might include the lumber needed to complete a construction project, okay? So you know that project resources include budget, people, and materials

Tools: aids that make it easier for a project manager or team to manage resources and organize work. 
There are all kinds of tools out there including productivity tools like Google Docs and work management software like Asana. We'll talk more about these tools later in this program. Tools are essential for tracking progress, so you want to keep them top of mind at all phases of your project.

