two common types of documentation could use to keep track of details and keep your stakeholders informed. 

Project proposal 
A form of documentation that persuades a stakeholder to begin a project

The project proposal is a great starting point to help you understand the desired goals and impact. A proposal may be a formal document, a presentation, or even a simple email to get others on board with the idea


Project charter: a formal document that clearly defines the project and outlines the necessary details to reach its goals. 
A project charter helps you get organized, set up a framework for what needs to be done, and communicate those details to others. 

Differences:
A project proposal is created earlier in the project life cycle than the project charter. The proposal kicks off the initiation phase by influencing and persuading the company to move forward with the project. The project charter serves a similar purpose and often comes at the end of the initiation phase. However, its goal is to more clearly define the key details of the project. Another difference between these two documents is that a charter will often serve as a point of reference throughout the life of a project. The proposal is only used at the earlier stages




Project charter: 
the benefits of the project outweigh the costs.
As you learned earlier in this course, there are a few questions you might ask yourself when performing a cost benefit analysis. That includes questions like: What value will this project create? And how much money could this project save my organization? How much time will people have to spend on this project? You'll include the answers to these questions in your charter. Including this type of information ensures that you and your stakeholders agree on the project value. 

Help to ensure that you and your stakeholders agree on the details of the project. 
Project charter approval means that management is supportive, and it's also a key step to ensure that the project matches the needs of the organization. After the stakeholders and project sponsor have reviewed and approved the project charter, you now have the authority to move forward with the project. Project charters can be formatted in a few ways and can contain different information depending on the project and the organization. The information in a charter might also be tailored to its audience or the needs of specific stakeholders.

Creating a project charter is a best practice for ensuring that everyone agrees on how to move forward before entering the planning phase.


